Israel's Military Intelligence Chief has
stood down after saying he takes
responsibility for the lapse in Security
on October the 7th Let's cross over to
Bernard Smith in occupied East Jerusalem
uh this is news that's just emerging
Bernard but quite significant news
indeed sahal Major General Aran aan
haliva is the most senior member of the
Israeli military to resign as a
consequence of the Hamas attack on
Israel on October the 7 he said in his
actual in his resignation or retirement
statement he said the Intelligence
Division did not live up to the task we
were entrusted with we know now that
there was a major failure of Israeli
intelligence that led up to October the
7th that allowed Hamas to get away with
this large scale attack on Israeli
territory we know now that for up to a
year before Israel intelligence had got
hands on a Hamas document that laid out
the plans for the October the 7th attack
and that happened
pretty much as as th as those plans had
been laid out we know that spotters
watching from the towers around Gaza in
the weeks and months leading up to
October 7th Israeli military spotters
had said they'd seen a lot of unusual
activity they said they'd seen Hamas uh
battalions preparing for some sort of
assault rehearsing something all of this
was ignored at the very highest level of
the military and the government because
there was this belief that hamus was not
interested in launching a military
assault on Israel Hamas was more
interested in managing Gaza they got
that spectacularly wrong the head of
military intelligence akan Aliva has
accepted responsibility for that he he
accepted responsibility a couple about a
week after the attacks he's going to
stay in post and until his replacement
is found and he's also called for the
establishment of a state investigating
committee to look into everything led up
to October the 7th of course the
government's not done that yet it says
it wants to carry on first finished the
war in Gaza Benjamin Netanyahu the Prime
Minister facing criticism that he's
prolonging this war in Gaza to avoid
setting up this committee and the
Reckoning that will come with it when he
is the prime minister is uh might have
to take responsibility himself for
October the 7 yeah B thanks very much
for that update bener Smith there for us
in occupied East Jerusalem Let's cross
over to AKA a political analyst and
contributor to heret newspaper in Israel
and joins us now from Tel Aviv Mr Elder
always good to have you you on Al jazer
for your contribution um Mr Haron has
said that he would resign but oversee
the Gaza operation one wonders why he's
decided to step down
now I think that uh one of the reasons
is maybe the main reason is that he
realized that uh netan is not going to
put an end to this war in the near
future um he he also realized that uh as
was published in many outlets media
Outlets that netan is not really
interested in a deal that will enable
the captives to those who are still
alive uh to get back uh home to Israel
um the other reason is that he wanted
maybe to step down in the climax after
the intelligent success uh in locating
the senior General Iranian General that
was uh targeted as we know uh according
to Al jazer uh by uh Israeli drones as
well as the attack in ispahan that is
considered to be a success so he is
leaving in the climax the other thing is
I think you have to look at his letter
of resignation there
is uh one line that uh was directed is
directed to uh the Prime Minister he
says Authority comes with
responsibility and nany is the highest
Authority and he never took
responsibility so actually Mr khwa
wanted to set kind of a
personal message to netan
uh to tell him if I can do it you also
should do it and the other thing the
timing is uh to today this in a few
hours from now the Israelis will gather
in the holiday and this will be the talk
of the day of course yeah indeed I
wanted to get to that because the
resignation right now on the eve of
Passover is no coincidence if he's
sending a message to the Prime Minister
he's also sending a message to the
Israeli public at large that when you
gather over Passover and sit your tables
for dinner this is the topic that you
should be
discussing yeah the uh topic was uh
until few hours ago was the captives and
uh people plan to put an empty chair
next to uh the set table and uh yellow
ribbons all around and even in the last
demonstration in Saturday um people were
Distributing uh
um plastic bags that contained a quarter
of a p and this is what uh the captives
are going to get so this will maybe also
put uh more energy to the protest
against Netanyahu and his uh I I think
uh his inability or lack of interest to
cut a deal that will put an end to the
war and many people suspect that netan
is doing this or not doing this what he
should have done because of personal uh
interest that he knows that the end of
the war is the end of his political
career and maybe you know this is the
holiday of freedom and this will be the
end of his uh holiday of Freedom yeah uh
we remember remember that he sits in a
trial yeah indeed I'm sorry to jump in
there but it is something that every any
every analyst we've spoken to and every
contributor has been talking about the
demise of Netanyahu it hasn't actually
happened I was just wondering that if uh
Major General jiva's resignation is
significant if we in the coming days and
we're talking hypotheticals here see
more resignations at different levels uh
within the military brass is that the
pressure that is going to you might say
get more people out onto the streets and
add pressure to the government and the
cabinet itself
yeah and I think the next one is not
only uh a member of the uh highest
military ason I think that it will go to
two former Chiefs of Staff who are
members of the inner cabinet the war
cabinet and I mean Mr guns and Mr Eisen
cot um and maybe this will create a
dynamic that uh will make it uh harder
for them to convince the their
constituency their voters that uh they
have a good reason to stay if Aon Hara
who uh was the chief of the Israeli
intelligence felt uh that this is a Time
to Say Goodbye uh many more and more
Israelis will call them to uh step down
uh since they were also responsible they
were part of this lack of
strategy uh to end the conflict with the
Palestinians and uh not to uh put more
power where less power didn't work we
you see what happens certainly in the
coming hours I don't think the story is
going away too quickly for the moment
hav Elder thanks so much for joining us
from Tel Aviv sir thank
you
thanks make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz